# Table of Contents
1. [Purpose](#purpose)
2. [File Format](#file-format)
3. [Lexicon](#lexicon)
4. [Reserved Characters](#reserved-characters)
5. [Escape Sequences](#escape-sequences)
6. [Header](#header)
7. [Objects](#objects)
8. [Sections](#sections)
9. [Substitutions](#substitution)

# Purpose
Oml (**O**bject **M**arkup **L**anguage) aims to be a flexable, easy to write, and familiar. It combines (what I consider to be) useful parts of various languages I've worked with, including (but not limited to) [Toml](https://toml.io), [Json](https://www.json.org/), and [INI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/INI_file). Oml aims to be simple and easy to implement for small projects but scaleable for large projects. You should be able to write Oml easily in a basic text editor.

# File Format
* The extension of Oml files is `.oml`.
* Oml files consist of UTF-8 encoded text with whatever line endings you want.

# Lexicon
Oml uses terms common in object notation and programming languages, however this lexicon is still included for clarity. More detailed explanations of these can be found under their respective sections.

## Common Typography Terms
* **Character:** A single letter or symbol.
* **Newline:** Either a line feed (`\u000A`, commonly represented by the escape sequence `\n`), carriage return (`\u000D`, commonly represented by the escape sequence `\r`).
* **Whitespace:** Either a space or tab character.

## Common Programming Terms
* **Boolean:** Often shortened to just "bool", either `true` or `false`.
* **Comment:** Text used only to clarify what is written instead of add useful data to the file.
* **Escape Sequence:** A backslash (`\`) followed by a character which specifies non-standard parts of text, such as newlines or to simply type characters which normally have a special meaning.
* **String:** A generic word for any sequence of characters, whether it's a word, sentence, or entire text file.

## Oml Specific Terms
* **Array:** An object containing other objects, none of which have their own key. They are indexed by a number rather than a key.
* **Document:** A parsed Oml file, consisting of a list of objects.
* **Key:** A unique string that identifies each value in a document.
* **Header:** A line of text at the top of a Oml file that specifies options about the file.
* **Object:** A value and it's identifying key.
* **Reserved Characters:** Characters reserved by Oml which cannot be used in many cases.
* **Section:** An area of a document containing objects which all have the sections name appended to their key.
* **Substitution:** Embedding the text of another object in the value of an object.
* **Table:** An object containing other objects, each with their own key. The contents of a document can be considered a table.
* **Value:** A piece of data, whether that's a number, bool, string, or table.

# Reserved Characters
There are a number of characters reserved by Oml which cannot be used many in scenarios accepting text. Anything mentioning reserved characters refers to the following:
* `=`
* `,`
* `[`
* `]`
* `{`
* `}`
* Any newline character.

# Escape Sequences
The following escape sequences should be respected by all Oml parsers. If the escape sequence is not natively supported by the programming language, it is expected that the parser adds support for it.
* `\n` Represents a newline, whether that's a line feed (`\u000A`) or carriage return (`\u000D`).
* `\\` Represents a backslash (`\`) character.
* `\"` Represents a double quotes (`"`) character.
* `\'` Represents a single quotse (`'`) character.

# Header
```# [Version = 1.0], [Comment = //]```
The header of a file is the first line of a Oml file, beginning with a `#` containg one or more objects specifying how the file should be parsed. Each objects is surrounded by square brackets (`[]`) and seperated by a comma (`,`) as opposed to being on separate lines.

## Header Fields
### Version
The version this Oml file was written for. If not defined, it's assumed to be the latest Oml version.

### Comment
A sequence of characters used to denote comments. If not defined, the comment characters default to `//`.
The comment characters cannot contain neither reserved characters nor periods (`.`). 

# Objects
```
ExampleKey = Hello, world!
Foobar.SubKey = 100
```
An object is a combination of a value, a global key, and optionally a local key. Each object in a document needs to have a unique global key. Objects are written in a Oml file as the key, an indeterminate amount of whitespace characters, an equals sign, another indeterminate amount of whitespace characters, and finally the value.

## Key
A key is the name associated with each Value. Keys begin at the first non-whitespace character of a line and end at the next whitespace character. They cannot contain any reserved characters, and as such cannot contain any escape sequences. Keys cannot begin nor end with periods (`.`).

## Value
Value is the name for the data of an Object. They can be any common value type (string, boolean, number), an array, or the Oml-specific Table.

### String
```
ExampleString = This is a implied string. [We can still use cool characters, though]
ExampleLiteral = " This is a literal string. Thanks to it, we can have leading and trailing whitespace."
ExampleMultiline = 'It was the best of times,
                    It was the worst of times.'
```
Strings are a simple piece of text. Strings can either be implied (defined by simple text, e.g. `Foobar`) or literal (defined by surrounding text with single or double quotes).

#### Implied String
Implied strings begin after all whitespace characters following the equals sign (`=`) and end at the next newline character (not including the the newline escape sequence (`\n`)). Implied strings can contain any reserved character.

### Literal String
Literal strings begin at the character following the first double or single quote and end at the last character before the next non-escaped single or duoble quote. Literal strings can contain whitespace characters as well as any reserved character. In literal strings denoted with single quotes (`'`), leading and trailing whitespace on lines is trimmed.

### Boolean
```
ExampleBoolean = true
ExamplePseudoBoolean = 1
```
Represents a `true` or `false` value. Numbers can also be parsed as a boolean, with `0` representing `false` and any other number representing `true`.

### Number
```
ExampleInteger = -123
ExampleDecimal = 123.456
ExampleHexNum = 0xb
NotActuallyANumber = 127.0.0.1
```
A number is simply a number. Numbers may begin with `0x` to denote that it is written as a hexidecimal number; and began with a `0b` to denote that it is written as a binary number. Regardless of the number system, numbers should be parsed as an base 10 integer if it contains no `.` characters, or a decimal if it contains exactly one `.` character. A number containing more than one `.` should be interpreted as a string, as seen in the `NotActuallyANumber` object above.

### Array
```
FibonacciSequence = ( 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5 )
```
An Array is very similar to an inline table. They are denoted with parenthesis (`()`). Arrays contain a sequence of values, without keys defined for the values. Instead of being indexed by keys, values in arrays are indexed by a number. Implied strings in an array, along with all normal restrictions cannot contain commas (`,`).

### Table
```
Character = {
    Name = John Doe
    Class = Cleric
    Experience = { Level = 8, Points = 180 }
    Alive = true

    SkillsUnlocked = {
        Heal = true
        Restore = false
        Revivify = false
    }
}
```
A table is an object containing other objects. A table is defined by the space between curly bracket (`{}`) characters, and can either span multiple lines or one line. In the case of a so-called inlined table (such as the `Experience` object in the above example), commas (`,`) are used to separate Keys instead of newlines. Implied strings in a table, along with all normal restrictions cannot contain commas (`,`). A table can contain any other Value type, including other tables. The table's key is appened to the keys of nested Objects. For example, the key of the `Name` object in the above example is equal to `Character.Name`. Multiline tables can contain Sections.

# Sections
```
[ItemNames]
CopperSword = Copper Sword
CopperShield = Copper Shield
CopperChestplate = Copper Chestplate

[]
SectionsAreGone = Thanks to the [], we no longer have any Keys appended to these objects
ItemStats = {
    [CopperSword]
    Attack = 16
    Defence = 0

    [CopperShield]
    Attack = 0
    Defence = 4

    [CopperChestplate]
    Attack = 0
    Defence = 12
}
```
Sections are a short-hand to append a certain Key to all Objects below it. In the above example, the `CopperSword` Object's Key is parsed as `ItemNames.CopperSword`. Tables continue until another table is defined. Tables can be put inside tables; in the above example, the key of the `Attack` object under the `CopperSword` header in the `ItemStats` table is `ItemStats.CopperSword.Attack`. A table containing no Key (i.e. `[]`) "clears" the section so to speak, with the objects below not having anything appended to their k6eys.

# Substitutions
```
Keyword = world
SubstitutionExample = Hello, ${Keyword}!

[OtherWords]
Foo = Foo
Bar = bar
Foobar = &{Foo}&{Bar}
```
Values can include the values of other objects within themself. These are written as a *control character*, followed by an opening curly bracket (`{`), the key of the value you wish to transclude, and ended with a (`}`). The two control characters are:
* `$`, representing a normal substitution using a key.
* `&`, representing a substituion using the key of an object within the same table or section.

# Changelog
* Initial Oml release (rc1).